<p class="inline-credit"><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" height="354" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/P5sCQ1pGH7g" width="630"></iframe><br />
	A Government Integrity Fund ad supporting Republican Senate candidate Josh Mandel.</p>


_This [story](http://www.propublica.org/article/revealed-the-dark-money-group-
attacking-sen-sherrod-brown/single#republish) first appeared on the
[ProPublica](http://www.propublica.org/) website._

In May, a previously unknown group started pouring money into Ohio's US Senate
race, considered one of the most important in the country and currently the
nation's most expensive. The group, the Government Integrity Fund, has spent
over $1 million so far on TV ads bashing Democratic incumbent Sen. Sherrod
Brown and praising his Republican opponent, Josh Mandel.

Like many other [such non-profit groups](http://www.propublica.org/article
/how-nonprofits-spend-millions-on-elections-and-call-it-public-welfare) that
are playing a dominant role in this year's elections, the Government Integrity
Fund is shrouded in mystery. It isn't required to reveal donors, nor has it
answered questions about who runs the group. The Fund's barebones
[website](https://www.governmentintegrityfund.com/index.php/about-us/) lists
no contact information beyond a P.O. Box.

The only name listed on [incorporation
papers](http://www.propublica.org/documents/item/422601-organization-docs-for-
sec-of-state-government) for the group is a Columbus lawyer, [William
Todd](http://www.alohiolaw.com/our-people/attorneys/william-todd.asp), who
told _ProPublica_, "I really have no role in their affairs." (In June, Todd
also declined to respond to questions from a Huffington Post reporter,
[citing](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/12/josh-mandel-sherrod-brown-
ohio-senate-government-integrity-fund_n_1590706.html) attorney-client
privilege.)

But previously unreported
[documents](http://www.propublica.org/documents/item/422662-government-
integrity-fund-sponsorship-id) filed with an Ohio television station pull back
the curtain a bit: the Government Integrity Fund is run by a state lobbyist
who in turn employs a former top Mandel staffer.

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<link href="http://www.propublica.org/article/revealed-the-dark-money-group-attacking-sen-sherrod-brown/single" rel="canonical" />
<meta content="http://www.propublica.org/article/revealed-the-dark-money-group-attacking-sen-sherrod-brown/single" name="syndication-source" /><script type="text/javascript" src="http://pixel.propublica.org/pixel.js" async></script>

<!-- break -->

The lobbyist, Tom Norris, is listed as the Government Integrity Fund's
chairman and treasurer. Norris owns an Ohio lobbying firm, Cap Square
Solutions, and last year hired a top Mandel aide, Joel Riter, to work at the
firm**.**

Riter's role in the Government Integrity Fund, if any, is not clear. The
former Mandel aide declined to say whether he is involved with the group that
is chaired by his current boss and running ads in support of his former boss.

"I can't talk to you about this," he told _ProPublica_. "I'm not going to
comment on any kind of involvement I have with anyone."

Norris did not respond to requests for comment, nor did the Mandel campaign.

The [documents](http://www.propublica.org/documents/item/422662-government-
integrity-fund-sponsorship-id) identifying Norris as the chairman of the Fund
are public because of a Federal Communications Commission rule requiring TV
stations to keep detailed records about political advertisers. The files can
be valuable, offering a look at exactly who is spending and how much. Until
recently, the documents were only available by physically traveling to
stations. _ProPublica_'s [Free the Files](http://www.propublica.org/series
/free-the-files) project has spotlighted the issue and this summer the FCC
passed a rule requiring the stations in the nation's top markets to upload the
files to a [government website](http://www.propublica.org/article/political-
ad-data-comes-online-but-its-not-searchable).

<p><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" height="354" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/kc3omlQbU_o" width="630"></iframe></p>


The [Associated
Press](http://www.theintelligencer.net/page/content.detail/id/573333/Brown
--Mandel-Race-Is-Most-Expensive-in-Nation.html?nav=5208) reported last month
that outside groups have spent $15 million supporting Mandel compared to about
$3 million on the Democratic side.

We still don't know who is putting up the money for the Government Integrity
Fund's ads because the group is a [non-profit "social welfare"
group](http://www.propublica.org/article/how-nonprofits-spend-millions-on-
elections-and-call-it-public-welfare), which don't have to release donor
information or register with the Federal Election Commission. Such groups are
[supposed to be](http://www.propublica.org/article/how-nonprofits-spend-
millions-on-elections-and-call-it-public-welfare) "primarily" engaged in
promoting social welfare but they have been flooding the airwaves with
political ads in the wake of the Supreme Court's Citizens United case and
[decisions by](http://www.propublica.org/article/flood-of-secret-campaign-
cash-its-not-all-citizens-united) regulatory agencies.

Besides identifying Norris as the chairman of the group, the form filed with
the TV station shows that the Government Integrity Fund has an office at [208
East State Street](https://maps.google.com/maps?q=208+East+State+Street,+colum
bus,+oh&hl=en&ll=39.961012,-82.996377&spn=0.008404,0.012757&hnear=208+E+State+
St,+Columbus,+Ohio+43215&gl=us&t=m&z=17), a few blocks from the state house in
Columbus. Riter, the former Mandel aide, also has an office in the building.

Asked about his office at 208 East State Street, Riter said: "Whatever office
Government Integrity Fund has is not mine."

Outside groups are not allowed to coordinate with campaigns, but it is common
for politicians' former aides to be involved with such groups.


Riter first worked as an aide to Mandel during the candidate's stint in the
Ohio legislature. Riter then became field director for Mandel's campaign for
state treasurer, joining the treasurer's office as constituent and executive
agency liaison after Mandel won the race. Riter left his state job in the
treasurer's office after six months to become a lobbyist at Cap Square in
2011. According to state [records](http://www2.jlec-
olig.state.oh.us/olac/Reports/ViewAgent.aspx?id=384), the firm lobbies for a
range of interests, including the Ohio Ready Mixed Concrete Association and
medical device companies.

Riter was featured in a _Dayton Daily News_
[article](http://www.daytondailynews.com/news/news/national-govt-politics
/treasurer-mandel-under-scrutiny-for-hiring-practic/nMzd7/) earlier this year
investigating Mandel's practice of hiring former campaign workers for state
jobs. (That piece led a Democratic legislator to
[file](http://toledoblade.typepad.com/bladeslices/2012/04/state-rep-brings-
ethics-complaint-against-ex-treasurer-employee.html) an ethics complaint
against Riter, who has [contested](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/24
/josh-mandel-ohio-senate-race-former-mandel-aide-ethics_n_1450216.html) the
charges.)

The Fund was [created](http://www.propublica.org/documents/item/422601
-organization-docs-for-sec-of-state-government) in May 2011 and an affiliated
[super PAC](http://images.nictusa.com/cgi-bin/fecimg/?C00498832), the
Government Integrity Fund Action Network,
[registered](http://www.propublica.org/documents/item/422600-organization-
docs-for-fec-government-integrity) with the Federal Election Commission two
months later.

The super PAC, which does have to report its donors, has not been active and
raised just $10,500 through the end of June, all but $500 from New York
financier and benefactor of conservative causes [Roger
Hertog](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_Hertog). Hertog also
[gave](http://www.propublica.org/documents/item/422694-hertog-
donations-11020363907-000084) $5,000 directly to Mandel's campaign last year.
Hertog declined to comment.

Brown campaign spokesman Justin Barasky said that the Government Integrity
Fund is the fourth largest outside group on the Republican side in Ohio,
behind such national outfits as the Karl Rove-affiliated Crossroads GPS. "We
don't know anything else about them," he said. "They are the only secretly
funded group that is based here."
