_This [story](http://www.propublica.org/article/guards-may-be-responsible-for-
half-of-prison-sexual-assaults) first appeared on the [ProPublica
website](http://www.propublica.org/). _

A [new Justice Department
study](http://www.bjs.gov/index.cfm?ty=pbdetail&iid=4881) shows that
allegations of sex abuse in the nation's prisons and jails are increasing-with
correctional officers responsible for half of it-but prosecution is still
extremely rare.

The report, released today by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, takes data
collected by correctional administrators representing all of the nation's
federal and state prisons as well as many county jails. It shows that
administrators logged more than 8,000 reports of abuse to their overseers each
year between 2009 and 2011, up 11 percent from the department's [previous
report](http://www.bjs.gov/index.cfm?ty=pbdetail&iid=2204), which covered 2007
and 2008.

It's not clear whether the increase is the result of better reporting or
represents an actual rise in the number of incidents.

Allen Beck, the Justice Department statistician who authored the reports, told
ProPublica that abuse allegations might be increasing because of growing
awareness of the 2003 Prison Rape Elimination Act.

"It's a matter of speculation, but certainly there's been a considerable
effort to inform staff about the dangers of sexual misconduct, so we could be
seeing the impact of that," said Beck.

The survey also shows a growing proportion of the allegations have been
dismissed by prison officials as "unfounded" or "unsubstantiated." Only about
10 percent are substantiated by an investigation.

But even in the rare cases where there is enough evidence to prove that sexual
abuse occurred, and that a correctional officer is responsible for it, the
perpetrator rarely faces prosecution. While most prison staff shown to be
involved in sexual misconduct lost their jobs, fewer than half were referred
for prosecution, and only 1 percent ultimately got
convicted.&nbsp_place_holder;

Roughly one-third of staff caught abusing prisoners are allowed to resign
before the investigation comes to a close, the report concludes, meaning
there's no public record of what exactly transpired and nothing preventing
them from getting a similar job at another facility.

"These findings point to a level of impunity in our prisons and jails that is
simply unacceptable," said Lovisa Stannow, Executive Director of Just
Detention International, a prisoner advocacy group in California. "When
corrections agencies don't punish or choose to ignore sexual abuse committed
by staff members-people who are paid by our tax dollars to keep inmates safe-
they support criminal behavior."

The lack of punishment may deter inmates from reporting. When the Justice
Department has surveyed inmates directly, as opposed to the administrators
that oversee them, the reports of abuse have been far greater. A [2013
survey](http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/svpjri1112.pdf) estimated that more
than 80,000 prisoners had been sexually victimized by fellow inmates or staff
over a two-year period, roughly five times the rate reported by
administrators. &nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;

"Inmates don't report because of the way the institution handles these
complaints: they're afraid if they do report, then the staff will retaliate,"
said Kim Shayo Buchanan, a law professor at the University of Southern
California who studies the issue. "Even if you report and they believe you,
which they probably won't, the most likely thing to happen is that the person
will be suspended or maybe fired."

Calls for comment to the Federal Bureau of Prisons and the Association of
State Correctional Administrators weren't immediately returned.
